# Interview with Tom

Know about Tom from [the previous interview](https://github.com/etalab/user-research/blob/master/interviews/20170817-tom/index.md)


## What kind of user are you?

- "How often did you search data in France recently? Did you find it? What was it?"

Data I've been searching recently:
- SIREN
- Transport timetable
- Hauts de france - Rennes
- Transport usage data (SNCF Ile de france mobilité)
- birth place and death place of every french ever

The latest dataset ( birth place and death place of every french ever) was a great dataset that permitted me to understand migration within France. It shares the type of jobs around these migrations.

I always use Google first.
Sometimes I go directly on DataGouv.

On Google I type one word in French to narrow the search in France.
Not an advanced searcher with Google.


## Testing the prototype

- "Let's visit together https://recherche.etalab.studio. What is happening for you?"

Typing haut de france.
Not found. Typing back.
Googling.
Having doubts.
Ending on DataGouv from the "plus de resultat" button.

"Cadastre" is interesting.
Feels very nice to me.
"Horaire des tgv" is nice.
I like that each card is a data.
And it's so quick!
A good way to explore the data quickly, to be inspired.

It lets you search by keyword: because of the speed it let you _search for real_.


"Voir plus" gave me the right answer.
I was expecting it to do what it did.
I would expect it to load more cards actually; It would search for more things eventually.

The publisher should appear on the card, it's missing.
If the publisher is big and reliable it's get it more credits.

It didn't find the local transport data.
I end up on google and reach opendata.hautsdefrance.fr.
(Notice that the dataset is actually not on datagouv)

I like the look. The typo is good. I can understand each data easily.
Even for cards I couldn't understand in the past!
On DataGouv I could click through and didn't understand what it was about.


### — "Anything confusing?"

Not really, there isn't much on here.
Maybe the sorting of the results is confusing that may be clearer on DataGouv.
SNCF does not appear eventually I would expect but I wouldn't be sure. Cause I know they have their own portal.

I’m confused by the fact I don’t know the scope of the search. Is that only on datagouv? All datagouv? Local portals? (Hauts de Seine) Private portals? (SNCF)

I'm quite happy.
I thing it's quite interesting.


### — "How do you think you may need this interface?"

I don't know.
I like it but I'm not sure I would start here.
If it was the default page of DataGouv then I'd use this instead of Google.
Well, Google has all sources, This has only one source. So it might not be enough. I can hardly predict…


## Extra information

The community resources is a great thing that works on DataGouv.
No one use them except on DataGouv where it's really used.
I'm a reader, not a commenter.
I have never submitted reuses on DataGouv neither.

https://datamillnorth.org also has the fast search and it's really good.
Sometimes I just want to understand what exists. I don't know what datasets are possible.

data.gov.uk is really bad.
Because of that all departments share on their individual websites again.
Department for transports.

Cristian Quest (@cq94) shares all the data. He's a good source of data.
He also does geocoding which was pretty bad before Christian goes through it, then it's just great!

5y ago publising of data and searching was poor in France compared to UK or netherland.
Now it's really good. I'm a happy user.
